==============
KanjiColorizer
==============

About
-----

``kanji_colorize.py`` is a script for coloring, resizing, and renaming
the stroke order diagrams from the
`KanjiVG <http://kanjivg.tagaini.net/>`_ project.  I wrote it to create
sets that make it possibe to easily add stroke order diagrams to an
`anki <http://ankisrs.net/>`_ kanji deck, but they can be used for
anything you want some nicely colored stroke order diagrams for.

If you'd prefer not to bother running a python script, there are some
sets of stroke order diagrams generated with it available for download.

Getting diagrams
----------------

If you just want some colorted diagrams, you can get them at 
`Downloads <https://github.com/cayennes/kanji-colorize/downloads>`_.
(Unfortunately github downloadable custom packages have been depricated
so I will not be able to update these.)

I've packaged up a spectrum set and a contrast set. The spectrum set
colors the strokes in rainbow order and is nice because the you can see
at a glance how the kanji is put together, but has the disadvantage that
stokes next to each other are similar colors, and color is sometimes
necessary to tell which number goes with which stroke. The contrast set
maximizes the contrast between any set of consecutive strokes.  (This
uses the golden ratio.  Math is nifty.)

Downloading and Running the Software
------------------------------------

If you want the command line script to generate diagrams to your own
specifications, such as saturation and value as well as the choice
between spectrum and contrast, the easiest way to install it is:

1. Make sure you have `python 2.7 <http://www.python.org/getit/>`_
   installed.
2. Run the command ``pip install KanjiColorizer``

The script should now be available by running ``kanji_colorize.py``.
You can supply it with the ``--help`` option to see what's available.

Using with Anki
---------------

Anki 2.x
`````````````
There is an addon for Anki2 that generates colored diagrams for all of
your kanji cards.  You can download it from the Anki2 Addon site.

Anki 1.x
````````

While I originally had instructions for a way to use a set of generated
diagrams with Anki1, it never worked very well.


Using the Package in Python Code
--------------------------------

The code is designed to be imported and used in python programs, but the
API *will* be changing.

Documentation can be found in the docstrings.  Though I have to admit
that I used doctest, which mean writing not-great documentation and
not-great tests for almost no work.

Feedback
--------

If there's anything you think would improve these, you can use the
`issue tracker <https://github.com/cayennes/kanji-colorize/issues>`_ or
email me at cayennes@gmail.com.

If you find any errors in image files generated by the most recent
version of kanji colorizer, check to see whether they have been fixed in
the KanjiVG data by looking at
`their online kanji viewer <http://kanjivg.tagaini.net/viewer.html>`_.
If it is correct there, it means that I didn't notice that there was an
update; let me know and I'll fix it.  If the error exists there, let the
KanjiVG project know using
`their issue tracker <https://github.com/KanjiVG/kanjivg/issues>`_.

Development
-----------

Have you created an improvement to KanjiColorizer that you think
other people would also like to have?  If so, please submit a patch or a
pull request!  I'm not always very prompt but I do get to them
eventually.

Please make sure existing tests pass.  Even better, add new tests for
anything you add.  Either doctest or unittest is fine, though ideally
the doctests would contain executable examples that fully illustrate the
function and the unittest tests would contain further worthwhile checks.

To run the existing tests:

    $ python -m kanjicolorizer.colorizer
    $ python -m unittest discover

Licence
-------

The code is available under the Affero GPL version 3 or later and the SVG
images are available under Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0.
See file headers and files in ``licenses/`` for more information.
